විදේශ සම්පත් දෙපාර්තමේන්තුව

வெளிநாட்டு வளங்கள் திணைக்களம்

Department of External Resources

මුදල් අමාත්‍යාංශය

මහලේකම් කාර්යාලය (3 වැනි මහල), තැ. පෙ. 277, කොළඹ00100, ශ්‍රී ලංකාව

நிதி மற்றும் அமைச்சு

செயலகம் (3 ஆம் மாடி), த. பெ. இல. 277, கொழும்பு00100, இலங்கை

Ministry of Finance

The Secretariat (3rd Floor), P.O. Box 277, Colombo 00100, SriLanka

Web Site:www.erd.gov.lk

e-mail: info@erd.gov.lk

12.04.2019

PRESS RELEASE

USD 1.8 million grant from the International Bank forReconstruction and Development (IBRD) of the World Bank toimplement the Climate Mitigation Action Support Project

The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Recipient’scapacities and systems to: (a) implement national climate change

policies, strategies and actions; and (b) design or strengthenmarket/non-market mitigation instruments.”

The above objectives will be achieved by designing andimplementing an optimal policy package, designing a nationalmonitoring, reporting, and verification (MRV) and registry system,piloting a national MRV systems, with an initial focus on project-/facility-level emissions and emission reductions, designing theinstitutional, legal and technical framework to support theenhanced, Piloting the enhanced Sri Lanka Carbon CreditingScheme (SLCCS), developing a roadmap for a new carbon pricinginstrument (CPI) and carrying out a program of activities thatsupport consultation and coordination among various relevantagencies and key stakeholders.

The project consists of the following components:

Mitigation Policy Objectives, Landscape and Options Analysis

Technical and Institutional/Regulatory Readiness Components toSupport Implementation of CPIs

Framework for Enhancing and Scaling Up the Domestic CPIs

Organization, Communication, Consultation and Capacity Building

A Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be established andchaired by the Secretary of the Ministry of MahaweliDevelopment and Environment. Project Steering Committeewill be responsible for coordination and proactive engagementacross several ministries and departments.

The aforementioned multi-donor trust fund grant agreement wassigned at 1345 hours Washington DC standard time on April 11,2019, during the Spring meetings of World Bank and InternationalMonetary Fund, held during April 8-14,2019 at Washington DC,United States of America. The multi-donor trust fund grant

agreement was signed by Mr. R H S Samaratunga, Secretary,Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka andMr. Hartwig Schafer, World Bank Vice President for the South AsiaRegion, on behalf of the World Bank.