==== BLOCKS ==== 

DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION • PUBLIC PROCUREMENT • SRI LANKA Electronic Government Procurement (e-GP)

in Sri Lanka

An opportunity to accelerate the digital transformation of public procurement

Sri Lanka Accelerating e-Procurement Adoption

The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development has conducted a series of training and awareness programs to facilitate the adoption of e-Procurement in Sri Lanka. Joining the list of countries that facilitate e-Procurement, Sri Lanka had the opportunity to learn from international experience, adopt proven approaches and accelerate towards a modern, transparent and data-driven public procurement system. Why e-GP Matters

e-GP enhances transparency and accountability, reduces administrative burdens, improves procurement efficiency and supplier access, strengthens electronic records, and provides reliable procurement data for better analysis and decision-making.

*Provincial percentages indicate each province’s

share of total e-procurements conducted nationwide

Promise.lk— National e-GP Platform

Promise.lk is Sri Lanka’s national electronic Government Procurement (e-GP) platform. Government Procurement Entities (PEs) can conduct shopping goods procurements as e-Procurements which the bidders can submit online bids to a secure system and publish procurement notices and award details of all other procurements online through this platform. It currently supports procurements up to LKR 25 million for local funding and up to LKR 35 million for foreign funding within the applicable procurement framework. LKR 25 Mn (MPC – GOSL Funding)

*Pls refer below table for exact amounts e-GP could be used for Shopping method Goods category procurements.

One Platform for All Government Procurements

GOVERNMENT

Publication • Bid Opening • Evaluation

• Awarding

BIDDERS

Notices • Online Bid Submission •

Opening Information • Awards

PUBLIC

Greater visibility

THE NATIONAL PICTURE

e-GP Implementation Is Rapidly Expanding

The expansion of e-GP is increasingly visible across different levels and categories of government. The current implementation data show 324 active Procuring Entities, covering Cabinet Ministries, Departments, other Central Government organisations including SOEs, District Secretariats and Provincial organisations.

324

Active Procuring Entities

19/25

Cabinet Ministries active

17/20

e-GP Active Departments under

Ministry of Finance

Level of Authority GOSL Funding Foreign Funding

MPC (Ministry Procurement Committee) 25 Million 35 Million

DPC / PPC (Department / Project Procurement Committee)

20 Million 30 Million

RPC (Regional Procurement Committee)

6 Million 6 Million

CAO / HD / PD (Chief Accounting Officer / Head of Department / Project Director)

1 Million 2 Million

LKR 35 Mn

(MPC – Foreign Funding)

ACTIVE PEs BY CATEGORY

Organisation Active PEs

Cabinet Ministries 19

Departments 143

Universities 16

District Secretariats 14

Other Central Government Organisations

107

Provincial Organisations 25

DISTRIBUTION OF ACTIVE PEs

From Basic Automation to a Fully Fledged Digital Procurement Platform

Year Number of e-Procurements

Value of e-Procurements

(In LKR Millions) 2020 89 186.6 2021 984 3,404.3* 2022 1,063 884.6 2023 2,812 1,289.8 2024 18,149 7,716.9 2025 31,099 15,195.4 2026 (As of July 31) 25,294 13,261.1 Total 80,390 41,938.7

*During the peak of Covid-19 in 2021, in absence of facility to call bids in the regular manner, certain high level (NCB) procurements were undertaken through promise.lk by way of uploading bidding documents allowing online bid submission. The significance of e-GP extends beyond conducting individual procurement activities online. As adoption expands, the system can become a foundation for a more transparent, efficient, competitive and data-driven public procurement ecosystem.

TRANSPARENCY

More accessible procurement information and stronger visibility of

public spending.

EFFICIENCY

Less paperwork, faster information exchange and reduced administrative

burden.

DATA

Better procurement information for

monitoring, analysis, policy and

decision-making.

The Process

e-Procurements Manual Procurement Notices Procurement Awards

Fully Digital Procurement Process

End-to-end electronic workflow for

Shopping Goods Procurements

📊 80,000+ e-Procurements Completed

Notices published for other procurements outside e-GP

📊 20,000+ Manual Notices

Published

Public Disclosure of Results

Awarded bidder details published

Contract value disclosed

📊 12,000+ Awards Published

The Opportunity Ahead

The Government of Sri Lanka, being the country’s single largest buyer, digitalization of public procurement opens up a significant market opportunity for businesses across the country. It is envisaged that a diverse supplier base will continue to grow ensuring greater competition, better value for public money and a more inclusive e-GP ecosystem. Expanding the e-GP registered supplier base will be facilitated by the Ministry of Finance to increase competition, improving access to government procurement opportunities and maximizing the benefits of e-GP. Therefore, vendor registration fees on promise.lk will be waived for a limited period from September 2026 onwards to encourage potential suppliers to register free of charge.

Despite Sri Lanka’s late entry to the e-GP journey than many countries in the region, it creates an ideal opportunity for Sri Lanka to learn from other’s experiences and rollout a more robust e-GP system from global experience and accelerate implementation. Promise.lk, as an established national platform with 324 active Procuring Entities is geared for significant transformation in the procurement landscape in the country.

Currently, 90% of the Departments under the General Treasury undertake the routine procurement through e-GP platform. To promote adoption, the Treasury has made it mandatory the Goods procurements within the applicable limits in General Treasury Departments to be conducted through e-GP.

The next phase of e-Government procurement system will be launched in 2027. Designed to handle both National and International Competitive Bidding, the platform will support procurement for goods, works, consulting services and non-consulting services. It is envisaged that advanced procurement features such as reverse auctions and e-catalogues will also be made available to use, once adaptation improves.